General Assembly’s learning philosophy
Putting real skills to work

The world is moving the fastest it ever has.

And skills are somehow evolving even faster.

At General Assembly, we know how difficult it is for individuals and businesses alike to keep up with emerging technologies and the constant evolution of roles, plus the skills and tools needed to succeed in those roles. It can feel incredibly overwhelming for everyone—especially for those early in their careers, contemplating new careers, or advancing their careers in nontraditional ways— along with businesses in the tech space and beyond. Many college grads, seasoned professionals, and employers across industries also feel unsure of— and unprepared for—the ever-evolving modern workforce.
The truth is, today’s workforce—regardless of industry—is increasingly fueled by
tech skills that are becoming even more valuable as the digitally charged future of
work, plus all things AI, continue to become more commonplace.
That’s where we come in. We’ve spent the last 13 years working hand-in-hand
with employers, tech experts, and industry insiders to build a learning ecosystem
that can help everyone thrive in a digital-first world. An ecosystem that
empowers a more efficient transformation of talent, skills, and processes. And
one that breaks down the barriers to entry for underrepresented and historically
marginalized groups—especially in the tech world.
Over 100,000 students have come through our doors (both physically and
virtually) and have gained the skills and confidence needed to fuel their careers
for years to come. We’re proud of our legacy and remain committed to the belief
that anyone can learn technical and workplace skills with the right learning
experience, support, and community—and that everyone should have the
opportunity to improve their lives through learning.
All the best,
Jeffrey Bergin
Vice President, Impact & Experience, General Assembly
Dear reader,
2
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
EngageCaptivate and encourage
Learning happens best when it’s
focused on the most important
things to know, draws personally
relevant connections to real life, and
motivates you to keep going.
Emphasize feedback
Specific, individualized,
and actionable feedback is
one of the most powerful
contributors to learning.
Focus on real-world
application
Learning should be focused on
how it’ll actually be used and
applied in the real world, with
emphasis on practice, learning by
doing, and real-world performance.
Be flexible
Learning should be flexible enough
to fit into your life, no matter where
you live or whether you’re a full-
time student, working full or part
time, a parent or caregiver, or a
mix of multiple learner profiles.
Be social
Collaborating with others
enhances learning, provides
additional feedback and
support, and also mirrors
how the real professional
world works.
Build independence
Learning should prepare
you to confidently perform
on your own, make your
own choices, monitor your
progress, and reflect on
how to improve.
Prepare
Our learning
philosophy
at a glance
Great learning experiences don’t just happen—
they require planning and take advantage of
research on what activities and strategies will have
the greatest impact. At General Assembly, we
believe in evidence-based design. At the highest
level, our research-based learning philosophy
and guiding principles behind our curriculum
development and learning design approach all
come together to create experiences that:
Support
3
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
Captivate and encourage
At General Assembly, we believe learning happens best when it’s focused on the
most important things to know, draws personally relevant connections to real life,
and motivates you to keep going.
Focus on the objectives
Let’s face it—learning isn’t always easy—especially with so many distractions
competing for our attention. And how demotivating is it to see that a reading or
assignment you’re about to start is so intimidatingly long? That’s why learning should
be explicitly focused on the essential content, activities, and assessments enabling
you to achieve its objectives,1 and should minimize extraneous content.2 This helps
make learning experiences concise and efficient and reduces distraction.
Give learning content the spotlight
While focused, learning content should also be presented in ways that make it easy
for your brain to process.2 How often have you found a webpage or app so difficult
to use that it takes away from the experience—that you have to work extra-hard just
to understand it or finish what you’re trying to do? With that in mind, interactions
with platforms and content should be intuitive, distraction-free, and enable easier
understanding—not hinder it.3 Buttons, headings, navigation, and visuals should be
purposeful, well-placed, and let the learning content itself have the spotlight.
A deeper dive into the details—and the research
that guides our program design decisions
Engage
Learning experiences should
engage learners by capturing
their attention, encouraging them
to keep going, and being flexible
enough to fit into their lives.
4
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
ENGAGE
Keep learners going
Ever take a course or read a book that feels like it makes no effort to actually
stay interesting? We have, too, and it’s awful. To avoid this, learning should be
thoughtfully designed to motivate the learner to keep going.3 One of the best
ways to do this is by encouraging personal relevance—drawing connections to
things in your own life, showing why what you’re learning matters.4,5 Case in
point—learning can point out that the steps in a process you’re learning are the
very same you’ll use on the job as a working professional. It can also provide
real-world examples of a concept you see in your everyday life, or share relatable
stories and case studies to strengthen not only your understanding but also your
motivation to learn knowledge and skills that matter to you as an individual.
Promote a growth mindset
Additionally, learning should promote a growth mindset.6 Some believe they
can never improve in a given area—that they have a “fixed” amount of skills and
aren’t ever able to get any better at math, playing an instrument, or progressing
in a sport. However, the truth is that our brains are flexible and can always
experience “growth” if we allow it and work at it. You may have heard of this
referred to as “fixed” and “growth” mindsets, but what many don’t realize is that
our mindsets often vary depending on the topic or skill. For instance, research
has demonstrated that someone can believe there is no way they’ll ever be a
good singer (“fixed” mindset) while also believing that although they’ve only
played a few games of chess, they can keep getting better with practice (“growth”
mindset).7 This is why it’s important for learning to continually reinforce that
practice and learning from mistakes can help anyone improve at anything if they
seek help when they need it and keep at it.
Learning should be thoughtfully
designed to motivate the
learner to keep going.
5
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
ENGAGE
Be flexible
We have busy lives just like anyone else, so we know just how important it is to
acknowledge the reality that it can be difficult to learn with so many competing
priorities and commitments. This is why learning should be flexible enough to fit
into your life, no matter where you live or whether you’re a full-time student,
working full or part time, a parent/caregiver, or a mix of multiple learner profiles.
Not only do we strive to keep learning short and focused (see above)—we also
design our learning using proven remote/blended learning principles, emphasizing
learning that can adapt to your schedule.
Activate remote learning
While remote learning boomed during the COVID-19 pandemic, there’s actually
a solid amount of evidence going much further back demonstrating that remote/
blended learning yields greater learning outcomes and more positive learner
attitudes than traditional face-to-face models. This has been found across all
subject areas and disciplines, with both child and adult learners, and in both school
and professional learning settings.8,9,10
Some of the many reasons for this include:
•  Learners spend more time practicing and “doing.”
•  There are more opportunities for personalization and individualized
feedback/support.
•  Learners have more control and choice “over time, place, path, and/or pace”
and the ability to self-manage.11
•  Connecting multiple interaction types (live instruction/discussion,
individual practice, remote small-group collaboration) “provides an
integrated learning experience.”11
6
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
Focus on real-world application
There’s a vast difference between knowing information about something and actually
being able to do it in real life. General Assembly empowers learners from all walks of
life with the real skills to be able to perform on the job immediately because learning
should be focused on how it’ll actually be used and applied in the real world—with
emphasis on practice, learning by doing, and real-world performance.
Incorporate realistic practice
There’s a reason “learning by doing” has become such a common phrase—it really
does work. The more practice you’ve had at something before having to do it when
your job depends on it, the better you’ll perform and the more confident you’ll be.
That’s why we design our products based on research emphasizing that learning
should be based explicitly on practicing tasks learners will perform on the job.
12
However, one crucial element of that practice is that the closer it is to how you’ll do it
in the real world, the more it’ll benefit you. For instance, someone in the final stages of
training to be a pilot will likely benefit more from extra practice in a flight simulator than
from reading books about how to fly a plane. Similarly, if you’re learning to code, you’re
better off being given a realistic scenario similar to a request you’d have as a junior
engineer, including requirements in the form of a ticket giving you clear instructions on
what success will look like in the context of an application as opposed to being given a
coding practice task with no context or bigger picture frame of reference.
Model and explain a variety of scenarios
You don’t become an expert at something immediately. It takes time and experience—
particularly solving a wide range of problems and edge cases and knowing what to
do if you see a similar problem in the future. All too often, learning experiences will
only show “happy” or “textbook” examples of how to do a task—versions of a problem
that are straightforward with simple solutions—but not what to do when real-world
complexity is added. While the “simple” approach is well-suited for beginners, it
Learning should
prepare learners for
independent, real-
world application of
the knowledge and
skills they’ve gained.
Prepare
7
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
PREPARE
often doesn’t enable learners to translate their skills to the workplace very easily.
They’ll flounder when there isn’t a straightforward solution like the examples they’re
accustomed to. That’s why in order to prepare learners for real-world performance,
learning should model a variety of scenarios, philosophical approaches, and levels
of expertise with rationales for processes and underlying decisions.
12,13 Examples
of this nature should enable learners to observe as experts not only work through
problems but also explain the reasoning behind what they’re doing in each step. It’s
also helpful for experts to describe common variations of the given problem as they
work, with instruction on ways to respond to each variation. Additionally, because
there’s often more than one way to solve a problem, it’s beneficial for learners to hear
about different philosophical approaches or schools of thought as experts model
problem-solving. This arms learners with skills, tools, and strategies enabling problem-
solving from multiple perspectives and approaches.12
Make routine tasks second nature and support complex
problem-solving
Some tasks in life are super predictable and done the same way every time. We
typically don’t need to actively think about walking, drinking water, or clapping our
hands—we just do them automatically, often while also thinking about something
else. Similarly, a pilot has practiced enough to not need to think about how to lower
a plane’s landing gear. An office worker types without having to actively think about
which individual keys to press. A UX designer doesn’t need to think about how to
draw a rectangle with their design software. In the 4C/ID instructional design model14
(which we apply during GA’s curriculum development), these are referred to as “routine
tasks,” which are taught by providing learners with steps in a procedure and having the
learner repeat it until memorized. If learners need assistance, they can refer back to the
procedural steps they were taught, but the ultimate goal is to internalize the process
until it can be performed second nature.
But not all tasks are this straightforward. There are also “non-routine” tasks,14 which
are less predictable than routine tasks and require problem-solving, reasoning, and/
or decision-making. Similar to the “variety of scenarios” approach described above,
non-routine task instruction involves providing a wide range of scenarios of varying
difficulty with explanations on how to approach each. The goal is to expose learners
to a variety of tasks, to understand the causes of issues or pitfalls, and effectively be
able to address them. Because non-routine tasks often involve actions responding to
a specific scenario rather than being the same every time, memorization of processes
isn’t crucial. As learners work through non-routine tasks, they’re aided with supportive
information on how to perform non-routine tasks—sometimes called “the theory”
behind the action.
Based on all this, learning should include practice aimed at making routine tasks
automatic/second nature and supporting procedural decision making for non-
routine tasks.
14 In particular, practice should support critical thinking with the ability to
identify and solve problems for which there’s no routine solution.15
8
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
PREPARE
Build independence
It’s one thing to perform a task as part of an assignment with support from an
instructor, but another to do the task completely on your own in a professional setting.
That’s why learning should prepare you to confidently perform on your own, make
your own choices, monitor your progress, and reflect on how to improve. Research
demonstrates that self-regulated learning, learner choice and control, and independent
practice can drive strong, self-reliant performance.
Encourage self-regulated learning
Self-regulated learning is the process of managing your own learning and adapting
your behavior and strategies to achieve your goals. It typically involves planning and
goal-setting, monitoring your progress toward your goal, and reflecting on how to act
next based on that progress.16 Enabling learners to self-regulate not only helps them
become confident and independent but also helps them excel.3 In fact, self-regulation
is one of the strongest predictors of high achievement and performance,17,18,19 which
makes logical sense because the more you understand your own needs and challenges
and are able to actively and consistently respond to them, the better your ability to
persist through difficulty. For these reasons, learning experiences should support
goal-setting and planning, provide opportunities to monitor progress, and offer
prompts and cues to encourage self-reflection.
Allow choice and control over the learning process
As you self-monitor, it can be additionally empowering and motivating to be able to
make your own choices and decisions about your learning, which in turn increases
independent thinking.20,21 Allowing choice over pacing, order, and the topics you
individually need to focus on the most (based on self-monitoring and reflection)
helps you pursue your goals in ways that work best for you, and often reduces the
need for assistance from others. Your instructor isn’t a mind-reader, and neither is
your manager, so whether you’re learning in a course or on the job, the more you can
make choices that will keep you moving forward, the better off you’ll be.
Promote independent practice
Building on that, in the real world, you aren’t always able to immediately
ask for help when you’re stuck on a problem, so the more practice you get
at working through roadblocks and setbacks independently, the quicker
you’ll be able to perform professionally. Research supports this, as it’s
demonstrated that practicing first on your own and requesting help
only when stuck helps you become more independent, self-reflective,
and job-ready—whether you’re learning in-person or remotely.22,23
With all of this in mind, the ability to monitor your own learning and make choices in
response can enable you to learn just about anything.
9
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
Emphasize feedback
Everyone makes mistakes—especially when they’re first learning something.
One of the best ways to improve is to be able to recognize what mistakes
were made, why they weren’t effective, and how to do better in the future.
This is why specific, individualized, and actionable feedback is one of the
most powerful contributors to learning.
Provide feedback specific to the individual
learner’s performance
Have you ever received a grade for an assignment or exam with absolutely no
explanation of where you went wrong or could have done better? Incredibly
frustrating, right? We naturally want to learn from our mistakes, and not
including feedback on how to improve is a missed opportunity. There are
other times when we’re working independently and know we’re struggling at
a task, but just can’t figure out where we’re going wrong. For these reasons,
learning experiences should include specific, actionable, individualized,
and timely feedback, which helps learners improve performance and self-
monitoring.
24,25 This is ideally more than just showing which questions you’ve
answered incorrectly or how many points were subtracted. The feedback we
actually learn from is a specific response to what we’ve done, explaining why
we’ve fallen short or made mistakes, and what to do to avoid them in the
future. Additionally, the practice of receiving and learning from feedback is a
critical skill in the workplace.26 In order to collaborate successfully with others
and continue to grow through performance reviews, we need to be able to
learn from each other and avoid taking criticism personally.
Learning should
provide feedback
on how to improve,
build community, and
support collaboration.
Support
10
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
SUPPORT
The frequent, individualized feedback
that comes from coaching can be a
critical contributor to someone’s
learning and skill development
Provide scaffolding through coaching
Coaching is when an experienced, knowledgeable person helps another achieve
a goal. Research demonstrates that coaching has a significant positive effect on
skills, performance, well-being, coping, work attitudes, and self-regulation, whether
it’s done in person or virtually.27,28 The frequent, individualized feedback that
comes from coaching can be a critical contributor to someone’s learning and skill
development—particularly in moving someone from needing continual support to
working completely independently.
One research-proven method for this is through scaffolding. Named after the
temporary supports used for constructing a building, the idea behind scaffolding is
starting with lots of support but gradually removing that support until ultimately the
learner is working completely on their own. Scaffolding can help:
•  Simplify tasks so they’re easier to practice.
•  Manage processes to support practice in real-world contexts.
•  Minimize frustration and risk and maintain interest.
•  Focus attention on things that may be taken for granted.
•  Prompt explanations and reflections.29
Learning should provide scaffolding through coaching. Not only does it enhance
learning—it also fosters independent, confident workers who can think critically and
not require lengthy training.22,27,28
11
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
SUPPORT
Be social
Collaborating with others enhances learning, provides additional feedback and
support, and is also how the real professional world works.
Enable collaborative learning
Rarely in the real world do we work completely alone, so when learning new
knowledge and skills, it’s vital to also learn how to use them in a collaborative
setting—which just so happens to also enhance learning. Research demonstrates
that outcomes and learner performance in collaborative learning settings are
superior to cooperative, competitive, and individualistic learning.30,31 One reason
for this is because the brain is wired to be social and feel part of a community, and
collaborative learning appeals to the brain’s default setting, taking advantage of
our natural desire to connect with others.32 Social learning through conversation,
peer learning, and producing work with a real audience in mind can powerfully
impact learning, compared to a focus on non-personal facts and individual
thought.32 Online learning typically involves mostly individual/isolated instruction,
but at General Assembly, we believe learning should include collaboration and
peer review, as well as promote a strong sense of community.
Use collaborative learning strategically
While collaborative learning provides powerful benefits, not all learning should
be social all the time. Successful social learning often needs preparation, and it’s
often best to start with learning foundational skills individually so learners have
the basic knowledge enabling them to work effectively together. For example,
it would make logical sense to make sure learners all understand key terms and
concepts before attempting a productive, collaborative conversation. Additionally,
it’s likely better to first watch a demonstration of a process on your own before
attempting to do it alone or with others.
Activities that tend to work best for collaborative
learning are non-structured tasks with multiple
possible solutions, rather than those with a clear,
single, correct answer. This is because the benefits
of collaborative learning often come from forming
arguments, presenting evidence, and justifying them to
others. Discussions like this are less likely to happen in
a group activity where learners are matching terms with
definitions or completing simple math calculations.
12
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
Prepare you
by capturing your attention,
encouraging you to keep going,
and fitting easily into your life
by focusing on real-world application
and building your independence
Bringing it
all home
At General Assembly,
we believe in our learning
philosophy. And we believe that
effective learning should always:
Support you
by emphasizing
feedback and
providing community
Engage you
13
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
General Assembly is the leading talent and upskilling
community that helps individuals and businesses
acquire the real skills required to succeed in an
increasingly complex technological era.
Founded in 2011 to make tech-centric jobs accessible to anyone and meet
the demand of fast-growing tech companies, we’ve evolved into a center of
excellence in training people from all backgrounds to upgrade their practical
knowledge of tech skills now required in every company and in any role.
Our global presence, hands-on instruction, and passionate alumni community
give learners 360-degree support as they take the next step in their career
journey. As part of the Adecco Group and partner of premier talent solutions
provider LHH, we’re positioned to match the right talent to business needs.
All day, every day: We put real skills to work.
Learn more: ga.co
Why General
Assembly?
Ready to power your progress?
PUTTING REAL SKILLS TO WORK
GENERAL ASSEMBLY’S LEARNING PHILOSOPHY
